Celeste Castillo
CSE 20211
11/25/14

Lab 9 Report


The purpose of this assignment was to recreate a version of Conway's Game of Life using cellular automata. From the user perspective, the program could run in 
two modes. In interactive mode, the program would first display a list of options from which the user could choose. These options were 'a' for add a new cell, 
'r' for remove a cell, 'n' for advance the game to the next iteration, 'p' for play in interactive mode, and 'q' for quit the program. If the user chose 'a' 
or 'r', the program would prompt the user to enter the coordinates of the cell to be added or removed. If the user chose 'p', the game would play continuously 
and the only way to stop the program would be to force a quit using the "control c" command. The other mode utilizes argc and argv commands to pass a data 
file at the command line. This data file would then be played continuously. From the programmer's perspective, in interactive mode, the program displays the 
list of options, and then prompts the user to enter the specific letter of their desired option. If neccessary, the user would be prompted to enter the 
coordinates of the cell to be added or removed. The other mode, reads in data files by utilizing argc and argc commands. At the command line, the user would 
enter life(the name of the executable of the game of life program) followed by the name of the data file. For this lab, multiple scenes were created with 
various data to continuously run various life scenes in the game. For example, to pass the scene 1 data file at the command line, the user would enter life 
scene1.life. The program uses a 2D char array for the boards. The program uses simple for loops to check the availability of spaces so that cells can be added 
or removed. The program was run multiple times to try to verify that the output of the program was correct. On some of the trials, the key 'q' would not cause 
the program to quit, but the other functions of the program worked when tried.


